Title: UKDroidCon 2011
Date: 2011-08-31
Author: Michael


***Check this OUT!***

<strong>This [droidcon event][] looks AWESOME. Today is the last day to
register at the early bird pricing, you know quids and all that. If you
live in the UK, you owe it to yourself to get there and get your learn
on!

Look at this amazing line up:</strong>

DAY ONE - BARCAMP/DEMOCAMP

The first day will start at 9AM to meet up and vote for the Barcamp
presentations.

By 10:30 ish the Barcamp will be in full swing with 10s of presentation
to choose from.

Around 17:00 we'll get started for the Democamp.

And by 19:00 we should all be gathering for Beer&Pizzacamp!

DAY TWO - CONFERENCE

The second day will start around 9AM and finish by 6PM. Then you can
join one of the many post-conference drinks!

Wireframing Like A Pro

Greg Taylor - Tigerspike

Greg Taylor will talk about Wireframing like a pro.

Concurrency And Multi-Core & Honeycomb

Al Sutton - Funky Android

Al will be talking about the mayhem of Multi-core. He'll teach you why
more cores can be good for an application and show you when, and how,
you can make use of any extra cores which might be available on the
device your application runs on.

Android@Home, Bluetooth @ Android, Wireless M2M

Harald Naumann

Harald Naumann will talk about Android@Home, Bluetooth @ Android and
Wireless M2M.

Gaming and Bluevia

Yosi Taguri - Bluevia

Yosi Taguri will talk about Gaming and Bluevia

Mobile Enterprise Security And The Need For Mobile Device Management

Alan Goode

Alan will talk about the use of mobile phones in the enterprise and
share his experience of the Mobile Device Management market.
Organisations are being challenged by employees bringing in their own
mobile devices and expecting to access corporate networks and store
corporate information. Alan will discuss some of the security challenges
that this ‘Consumerisation’ trend is creating and how organisations are
meeting this challenge.

Richard Hyndman - Google

Richard Hyndmann will talk about Google Fragments

Operator APIs

James Parton - O2

James Parton will talk about Operator API.

Open Intents - Historify And Other Aggregating Apps

Friedger Müffke

Friedger Müffke will talk about Historify And Other Aggregating
Applications (Google Summer Of Code Project).

Kick-starting Android Application Development

Matthias Kaeppler - Qype

Matthias will talk about kick-starting Android Application Development:
"Due to its basis in Java, the Android SDK is a simple way to get
started with app development, even for those developers not coming from
a mobile background. Still, the Android framework lacks standard,
re-usable solutions to many recurring tasks, making it more difficult
than necessary to get an application off the ground quickly. Thanks to
the amazing Android development community, we have plenty of utility
libraries today that patch these holes in the Android framework. In this
talk I will present a selection of these freely available libraries,
which will help kick-start app development, by managing your objects and
builds, and by offering ready-to-use solutions for the most common
issues."

The Geeksphone Story

Javier Agüera - Geeksphone

Javier Agüera will talk about the Geeksphone story.

Android Gaming

Mustafa Isik - CodeSurgeon

Mustafa Isik will talk about Android Gaming.

3D Advertising

Terence Eden - Inmobi

Terence will talk about the Reality of Mobile Advertising.

Test-Driving Android Applications with Roboelectric

Joseph Moore - Pivotal Labs

Joseph will talk about why and how Robolectric was built.

Reforming Addicts Or iOS To Android Made Easy

Kieran Gutteridge

Kieran will talk about reforming addicts or iOS to Android made easy.

UI For Tablet & Phone and TV

Nick Butcher - Google

Nick Butcher will talk about UI For Tablet & Phone and TV.

Android's Message-Driven Architecture

Carl Gustaf Harroch - Novoda

At Droidcon London 2011, Carl-Gustaf Harroch will explain Android's
Message-driven Architecture.

Steps to Best Beta Releases

Jon Vlachoyiannis - Bugsense

Jon Vlachoyiannis will talk about testing, specifically Steps to Best
Beta Releases.

Motion Recognition with Android Devices

Gabor Paller - Sfonge Ltd

A built-in accelerometer is an almost obligatory feature of Android
devices. This sensor enables the auto-rotation feature and is used e.g.
in game applications for tilt-controlling the action. This presentation
discusses the usage of accelerometer for detecting dynamic motion
patterns. Shake or walk detection are very common use cases but exotic
features like dance detection can also improve the usability of a
specific application significantly. Android does not have platform-level
motion recognizer module therefore developers need to be aware, how to
detect motion patterns in the accelerometer's sample stream. We will
examine the most frequently used motion detection methods. The effect on
battery consumption will also be presented.

Massively Scalable c2dm with QoS and SLAs

Dylan Boyd - Urban Air Ship

Dylan Boyd will talk about Push notifications, specifically massively
scalable c2dm with QoS and SLAs.

Traceview and MAT for Fun and Profit

Mark Murphy - CommonsWare

Mark Murphy will talk about Traceview and MAT for Fun and Profit.

How To Run A Private Beta On The Android Market

Thai Tran - Lightbox

Thai will talk about How To Run A Private Beta On The Android Market.

Making Sense of In-App Billing

Hermes Pique Robot Media

Android In-App Billing is not for the faint of heart! Hermes Pique will
introduce the core concepts behind the Android Market's Billing Service,
and get you up and running with a working example using his open-source
Android Billing Library.

  [droidcon event]: http://uk.droidcon.com/
