Title: *Development
Date: 2011-02-13
Author: Michael


So far I've really enjoyed my time learning Java and Android
development.  It's taught me a great deal in regards to programming the
entire life-cycle of an application. In class, we are generally given a
small task to complete which can generally be accomplished in 1 to 3
hours with 5 or 6 class files.

Developing a "REAL" Android app has been an extreme learning
curve comparatively speaking. Every aspect must be accounted for and
properly dealt with. However, I would bet that it takes me three times
longer than a seasoned developer to accomplish most tasks. I'm changing
that slowly but surely... its a passion thing.

How does one become more efficient with their programming? Study
relevant bits and minimize distractions. I attempt to steer clear of
religious and political debates unless I'm cornered in my personal life.
I'm finding that doing the same in programming pays off.

You can search and seek out, x vs. y debates and disccusions on the
intertubes until you're blue in the face. I've found that rarely, if
ever, do you gain real insight from such discussions. I've found that
its better to just do what you do until it doesn't work, then seek new
and better approaches specific to your problem. Drilling down the
issue/problem to its finest details yields the best ROI for time in my
experience thus far.

I know that sounds intuitive and easy. When you're staring the giant
programming world in the face with problems you barely comprehend
its daunting and easy to be led astray. I've been clobbered by the time
sucking ritual of IDE vs IDE debate when all I was looking for was a way
to integrate a version control system. Countless hours; gone. No more, I
say... I'm getting hyper-focused and staying there.

P.S. The picture is a preview of the next app...
