Title: Google I/O 2011 - Initial Thoughts
Date: 2011-05-12
Author: Michael


This was my first year attending Google I/O and I hope to attend many
more. Overall, the experience was simply mind bending. Every session I
attended was packed [from an information & body count perspective] and
meticulously presented.  I received a Google I/O review form and laid
down some initial thoughts... I'll probably add another review in a week
or so after full digestion.

Session Review:

First, I'd like to thank Google for the extremely professional,
high-quality and INSPIRING developer conference. I appreciate the
opportunity to participate.

I'd like to see some of the sessions last a bit longer in the future.
I'm sure scheduling is not trivial, nor is it possible to please
everyone. That said, I attended several sessions that were extremely
compressed, but most were just right.

A good example of just right; The Android Protips session with Reto was
awesome and easily digestible for the intended audience (experienced
developers). The Protips session presented information that was new to a
lot of developers, yet manageable from a cognitive point of view.

In other words, it was just right in my humble opinion. Which is not to
say that I wouldn't appreciate a longer session with Reto. Code and
advanced developer topics are easier to consume for people who spend a
lot of time coding.

A good example of a compressed session; The Designing and Implementing
of UI's for phones and tablets. Developers naturally spend most of their
time coding, I think we can all agree on that. UI / UX design are topics
where most developers will readily admit some level deficiency, myself
included.

So if we know developers have ranging issues with UI / UX. I would think
it makes sense to spend a bit more time on the topic. Furthermore, a
fair amount of criticism for apps related to Android is a lack of
polish, fit and feel. "Haters gonna hate", but there is a kernel of
truth in those arguments. It may be selfish to ask for this, but I would
really like to see more UI / UX topics.

I guess it boils down to how many developers "do it all" for their apps
where the economics of hiring a designer is not possible or they simply
don't know their UI's / UX's need help. In any case, I don't think
spending more time on UI's / UX's would be time poorly spent or poorly
received by the Android / Chrome developer community as a whole.
